# Convert Jigoshop Orders to WooCommerce Orders

First of all, this plugin is really intended for devs to use. If
you're not confident with the layout of WordPress content in your
database then this plugin isn't for you. If you are, read on.

## What's the deal?

I needed to convert a Jigoshop site to use WooCommerce. I installed and ran the
free (though discontinued) plugin by WooThemes for the shop migration. This
worked well, but didn't actually do anything with the pre-existing orders, it
only converted products and appropriate meta data.

I had a look at some of the other free plugins I could find to do the job, but
they didn't work for various reasons. By this point, I'd made a sample order
via WC and compared the data structure to that of an old order. It seemed a
quick conversion script might be the answer.

As the plugin is only intended for a one-off run by myself it's pretty (very?)
quick-and-dirty. YMMV.

## Recommend Steps

* Put your site into maintain once mode
* Enable the plugin.
* Access the public facing part of site to trigger the main conversion. It
  hooks in on `wp_head` (yeah, I know), and will output some logging to the
  browser (hence the maintenance mode).
* Disable the plugin.
* Take your site out of maintenance mode

## Caveats and Questions

> All the order statuses are set to completed. Why?

This is hard coded. I knew all the orders I needed to convert had been
fulfilled and it was easiest for me just to set the status explicitly.
A grep of the code for `wc-completed` will allow you to find the relevant
line that needs tweaking if this is an issue.

> I want to run this behind the scenes?

You can't as the plugin stands, but it wouldn't be a major change to
unhook from `wp_head` and then run as part of eval-file argument using WP CLI.
Other ways beyond that are left as an exercise for the reader.

> I've got a crazy high number of orders and the page timed out. Does the
> plugin pick up from where it left off?

No. I had to run this on slightly less than 10,000 orders, and all queries ran
in a minute or two. I didn't hit any timeout issue, but I can see that being a
larger shop issue.

If you do run into this, perhaps use `add_option` to keep track of the last
order ID converted, then check for this at the start of conversion function.

> Does the plugin handle WordPress database table prefixes?

No. Even better than that, all the table references are hard-coded. When I
said the plugin was 'quick-and-dirty' I really meant it.

> I have some custom fields that I'd like to map between orders?

I also had some custom fields to map, notably to do with personal message
and delivery date per order. You can look at those for an idea of what to
do. I'd recommened running some queries to check the data format of the old
custom field.
